turning points explores the moment when six people's lives change forever, and is produced and directed by chris tally evans, from rhayader, powys.
sir roger talks about how a dialogue coach helped boost his confidence, which helped him forge his career.
turning points has been made for london 2012 festival, a nationwide arts event.
the festival is running until 9 september and bringing together leading artists from across the world.
turning points was premiered at chapter arts centre in cardiff on wednesday night.
tally evans said his film celebrated life changing moments when a meeting, an event, or something unexpected led to a new and better direction.
it started as a nationwide story-telling project aimed at inspiring and changing the lives of others by collecting stories from people of all ages, abilities and walks of life.
tally evans, who has written and presented programmes for bbc tv and radio, said: "it's fantastic to get the chance to have my work included in such a momentous festival and i'm looking forward to the film transferring to the southbank centre in london (from 31 august to 9 september)."
"i think it was meeting a man in hollywood, a dialogue director called joe graham.
"warner brothers thought that i sounded too english.
they said: 'we'd like you to work with this dialogue coach.'
"he said: 'you think we're all born the same?'
i said: 'of course we are.'
he said: 'some people are lucky, they're born 6ft 4ins and some people are born 3ft 2ins.
some people have got straight even features and some are not so pleasant on the eye.'
"i said: 'that's the luck of the draw, isn't it?'.
he said: 'yes, but the big sin is if you don't use what you've got'.
he said: 'you're 6ft 1ins and you only stand 5ft 9ins, so if you believe we're all born the same way then why don't you stand your full height?"
"he said did you go to university?
i said: 'no'.
he said: 'do you regret that?'
i said: 'yes, i do a great deal'.
"he said: do you feel that sometimes when you're talking with people that you might mispronounce a word or you don't have the right word for the explanation?'
i said: 'yes'.
"he said: 'well, there you are.
that's you're problem'.
and it made such a difference to my life.
joe was on the set everyday.
he made a lot of difference to me, gave me a great deal of confidence, otherwise i wouldn't be able to talk to you."
there will also be a showing at the elan valley visitor centre, near rhayader, on 6 july.
"it's great that so many people have become involved in this project and i can't wait to see the effect their brilliant stories have on an audience," added tally evans.
"there's a huge range of stories, about 100 in total, ranging from a printing press falling down a lift shaft to a eulogy for a dead friend."
sir roger, who is not shown on screen but has a speaking part in turning points, is joined by welsh athlete jamie baulch, an olympic silver medallist in 1996.
others taking part are artist ellen jackman, who lives in birmingham, visually impaired dancer lyn street, from newport, daniel chapman, an 11-year-old from near rhayader who has autism, and the filmmaker himself, who is partially sighted.
tally evans said the stories were woven together to speak with one voice, while 11-year-old morgan evans, from rhayader, runs through a welsh landscape.
vibrant images, sometimes lyrical, sometimes satirical, add depth and colour to the stories as they reach an inspiring conclusion.
there are other stories on the turning points website from paralympic gold medallists dame tanni grey-thompson and david roberts, world champion hurdler dai greene, former commonwealth and european welterweight boxing champion colin jones and olympic cycling gold medallist geraint thomas.
in the film tally evans explains how he came to terms with an hereditary eye problem, which left him partially sighted.
a social worker told him his life was going to be different, and if he did not come to terms with it he would be a "very unhappy man".
"i refused rehab, where i was supposed to go off to another city to be taught how to be a proper, grateful disabled person, threw the braille card in the bin and have lived exactly the sort of life i always wanted," tally evans said.
"i never saw my social worker again."
the film also has contributions from the former first minister rhodri morgan and ex-formula 1 world champion jackie stewart.
nick capaldi, arts council of wales chief executive, said: "chris tally evans brings his own unique insight to a series of personal tales, set against the inspiring welsh landscape."