muir, 23, broke mccolgan's 25-year-old record by 14 seconds at the emirates arena in glasgow on wednesday, with a time of 14 minutes, 49.12 seconds.
mccolgan said she felt excited to see her last record broken by muir.
she had earlier raised concerns about whether muir's race had met all the criteria set by uk athletics for record-breaking attempts.
she had told bbc radio's john beattie programme it needed to be a "genuine race" and may not have been as "muir had been the only competitor".
"it was a mixed 3k race where all the other girls ran 3k and it was only laura who finished the 5k," she said.
"we were wondering if to get a record ratified you have to have drug testing as well.
"so we were just wondering if they had everything in place to actually have it ratified as a record."
however, british athletics confirmed muir's time was expected to be classified as official.
a spokesman said: "the time will undergo ratification but is expected to be confirmed".
rules stipulate that if there is no doping control at an event where a british record is set, there is no requirement for the athlete to submit drug tests.
mccolgan said muir had what it took to win world medals.
"to run 14.49 indoors is pretty good," she said.
"but she is a 3.55 minute 1,500m runner, so you would expect someone like laura to run (5k) in something like 14.30.
"so there's still a lot more in the tank and i don't think that's the fastest 5k she's ever going to run.
"she's got the ability to get down to 14.30, which is really mixing it with the top in the world."
mccolgan said muir's race, which saw her lap other runners, had been similar to her own record-breaking race 25 years ago.
"i ran on my own right from the start with nobody really pushing me at all," she said.
"i actually lapped a young paula radcliffe about two or three times."
mccolgan said it was a bonus that her record was beaten by a fellow scot.
"she is world class," she said.
"she just needs to get her race tactics right so that she can start winning some medals."
muir broke her own british 1500m record at the diamond league meeting in paris in august and reached the 1,500m olympic final at rio 2016.