grant ward's scuffed shot put town ahead before luke varney rolled the ball into an empty net after qpr keeper alex smithies miscued a clearance.
cole skuse's long-range shot fell to tom lawrence, who capped the scoring with a calm finish into the corner.
rangers offered little in attack, but sub sandro headed tjarron cherry's corner against the post late on.
ipswich had failed to score in seven of their previous 10 championship games, but could have had plenty more, with christophe berra heading wide from six yards, and skuse firing a volley straight at smithies.
the rs have won only once in their last six matches away from loftus road, and rarely looked like improving that record in ian holloway's second game in charge.
the win lifted mick mccarthy's ipswich up four places to 14th and above rangers, who slipped to 15th.
ipswich manager mick mccarthy: "the irony was that poor old alex smithies cost them the second goal which set us up to win as comprehensively as we did.
he then kept it from being an embarrassing scoreline, but i'll take three.
"with luke varney and also jonathan douglas, i knew what i was going to get - even though i bet some people weren't thinking that when they saw the teamsheet.
luke epitomised everything what i want in this team.
"we have not been bristling with confidence.
i have had a couple of rotten weekends after rotherham and nottingham forest.
but hopefully ipswich can be a happier place than it has been."
qpr boss ian holloway:  "i am sure everyone will say everything hinged on the second goal, but it shouldn't have.
"the goal was a calamity and after that we were awful and it could have been four or five.
"everyone will blame my keeper but i won't as my defenders should have made an angle for him.
even with my legs, i would have ran back and tried to help him.
"my players need to be mentally tougher as a group.
i am disappointed with how we finished today.
we have got to try and be a bigger, braver and more solid team."
match ends, ipswich town 3, queens park rangers 0.
second half ends, ipswich town 3, queens park rangers 0.
attempt saved.
yeni n'gbakoto (queens park rangers) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
yeni n'gbakoto (queens park rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
foul by luke chambers (ipswich town).
attempt saved.
freddie sears (ipswich town) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
assisted by jonathan douglas.
offside, ipswich town.
leon best tries a through ball, but jonathan douglas is caught offside.
attempt saved.
david mcgoldrick (ipswich town) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
assisted by leon best.
attempt saved.
freddie sears (ipswich town) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
assisted by cole skuse.
karl henry (queens park rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
foul by jonathan douglas (ipswich town).
offside, queens park rangers.
alex smithies tries a through ball, but idrissa sylla is caught offside.
sandro (queens park rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
foul by david mcgoldrick (ipswich town).
attempt blocked.
cole skuse (ipswich town) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
corner,  ipswich town.
conceded by grant hall.
karl henry (queens park rangers) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
foul by cole skuse (ipswich town).
attempt missed.
jonathan douglas (ipswich town) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the left.
assisted by freddie sears with a cross following a corner.
corner,  ipswich town.
conceded by alex smithies.
attempt saved.
grant ward (ipswich town) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
assisted by freddie sears with a through ball.
alex smithies (queens park rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
foul by jonathan douglas (ipswich town).
corner,  ipswich town.
conceded by alex smithies.
attempt saved.
david mcgoldrick (ipswich town) right footed shot from the right side of the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
assisted by grant ward.
attempt missed.
david mcgoldrick (ipswich town) right footed shot from more than 35 yards misses to the left.
assisted by cole skuse following a set piece situation.
substitution, ipswich town.
leon best replaces tom lawrence.
foul by nedum onuoha (queens park rangers).
grant ward (ipswich town) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
corner,  queens park rangers.
conceded by grant ward.
corner,  queens park rangers.
conceded by adam webster.
sandro (queens park rangers) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
foul by jonathan douglas (ipswich town).
sandro (queens park rangers) hits the right post with a header from the right side of the six yard box.
assisted by tjaronn chery with a cross following a corner.
corner,  queens park rangers.
conceded by christophe berra.
attempt missed.
david mcgoldrick (ipswich town) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right.
assisted by tom lawrence.
foul by sandro (queens park rangers).
jonathan douglas (ipswich town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
foul by karl henry (queens park rangers).
cole skuse (ipswich town) wins a free kick on the left wing.