jak trueman, 15, was suffering from a rare form of blood cancer called gamma delta t-cell lymphoma.
on saturday he briefly attended a school prom held in his honour.
his mother allison broke the news of his death on his facebook page, saying: "devastated and heartbroken to say my beautiful boy's gone to heaven."
she added: "god bless.
jak i am the proudest mummy ever xxxxx simply the best xxx."
the west calder high school pupil had been documenting his life and treatment on social media.
since he was diagnosed with cancer last august, jak had been posting updates on a facebook page called jak's journey with the help of his mother, sister aimie and girlfriend hannah boyd.
the teenager's story of his fight against cancer, and his relentlessly positive attitude, touched the hearts of many people in west lothian and beyond.
the jak's journey page attracted more than 28,000 likes and documented the teenage goalkeeper's love of rangers fc, and his meetings with former ibrox stars neil alexander and nacho novo and current goalkeeper cammy bell.
on saturday, he managed to make it along to his prom for 10 minutes but had to leave as he felt unwell.
jak was greeted at the event by former rangers captain barry ferguson.
the teenager wrote on his page: "i would just like to make a massive apology for me only turning up and then having to go again.
"i was gutted and really sad as i never spoke to anyone, but i took really unwell really quickly as i had been lying in bed for three days without hardly moving.
"thank you to everyone who organised it and came along.
even just knowing it was all happening for me makes me smile."
at the party, jak's family collected the teenager's bronze duke of edinburgh award and also the kerry macgregor memorial trophy for overcoming adversity.
the jak's journey website highlighted jak's stay at the royal hospital for sick children in edinburgh and yorkhill hospital in glasgow over the past few months.
he was visited by players from celtic, hibs, hearts and edinburgh rugby and the cast of the musical wicked.
jak and his family also published many other personal moments, including him playing his tuba and visiting his classmates and teachers at school.
on 23 january, jak and his family found out from doctors that his cancer had spread throughout his body.
the medics made a decision to not pursue any other treatment.
at the time, jak wrote: "this is the saddest day of our lives yet but i am going to fight the pain and get as many days/weeks/months/years i can get.
they can't give me a timescale to how long i have.
"i am so sorry to give everyone this horrible news but there's no other way to put it.
"i would like to thank all the doctors, nurses and everyone who has helped me over the past six months, they have tried their best for me."
in the days after he received the news, jak's family urged people to donate to a fundraising page for leukaemia & lymphoma research.
after becoming ill jak also visited the kelpies, enjoyed a romantic meal with his girlfriend, went to a party in his honour which was attended by neil alexander and nacho novo, and spent time in a supercar and on a quad bike.
more money is expected to be raised for charity on sunday at a special football match being held at the energy assets arena, home of livingston fc.