craig bryson gave the rams an early lead when he struck from the edge of the area, before thomas ince curled in a stunning effort to double the lead.
shortly after bryson hit the crossbar, darren bent added a third when he headed home from close range.
ipswich struggled for clear-cut chances, while derby missed several.
ince, whose earlier effort came after he drifted in from the right to score his 11th goal of the season, could only hit the post from a low cross by bent in the second half.
ipswich keeper bartosz bialkowski also made smart saves from both bent and jacob butterfield.
the hosts had a late penalty appeal when grant ward went down in the area, shortly before kieffer moore's shot was deflected wide on his home debut.
the result leaves the hosts with just one win from their last seven games, a run which included being knocked out of the fa cup by non-league lincoln city.
there was further bad news for mccarthy's men, with influential forward tom lawrence replaced at half-time because of injury.
ipswich manager mick mccarthy: "it looked like an ordinary start from both teams, but the first goal was far too easy for me, as was the second.
"we'd had a bit of a rally just before the third goal, when we should have scored from a corner kick, but then we give the ball away and it ends up in the net.
"it's quite clearly a foul in the build-up, which is not irrelevant because at 2-0 we could maybe get back in it, but 3-0 has put the game to bed."
derby manager steve mcclaren: "we should have scored more goals, but you can't have everything.
i thought we were great in the first half - we've been so disappointed with our starts over recent games.
"there were some tremendous performances and to come here and win 3-0 means the credit has to go to the players.
"the most important thing in the second half was not to be complacent, keep a clean sheet and take home the three points."
match ends, ipswich town 0, derby county 3.
second half ends, ipswich town 0, derby county 3.
kieffer moore (ipswich town) wins a free kick on the left wing.
foul by cyrus christie (derby county).
attempt missed.
grant ward (ipswich town) right footed shot from outside the box is high and wide to the right.
assisted by kieffer moore.
attempt missed.
kieffer moore (ipswich town) header from the centre of the box is close, but misses to the right.
assisted by grant ward with a cross following a corner.
corner,  ipswich town.
conceded by markus olsson.
attempt blocked.
kieffer moore (ipswich town) right footed shot from the right side of the box is blocked.
assisted by grant ward.
foul by freddie sears (ipswich town).
cyrus christie (derby county) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
hand ball by grant ward (ipswich town).
foul by david mcgoldrick (ipswich town).
craig bryson (derby county) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
dangerous play by kevin bru (ipswich town).
craig bryson (derby county) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
foul by kieffer moore (ipswich town).
bradley johnson (derby county) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
substitution, derby county.
cyrus christie replaces chris baird because of an injury.
foul by christophe berra (ipswich town).
matej vydra (derby county) wins a free kick on the right wing.
foul by jonas knudsen (ipswich town).
tom ince (derby county) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
attempt missed.
craig bryson (derby county) right footed shot from outside the box misses to the right.
assisted by ikechi anya with a headed pass.
attempt saved.
david mcgoldrick (ipswich town) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
kevin bru (ipswich town) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
foul by craig bryson (derby county).
attempt blocked.
christophe berra (ipswich town) header from the left side of the box is blocked.
assisted by grant ward with a cross.
corner,  ipswich town.
conceded by markus olsson.
jacob butterfield (derby county) hits the left post with a right footed shot from the centre of the box.
assisted by tom ince following a fast break.
grant ward (ipswich town) wins a free kick on the right wing.
foul by markus olsson (derby county).
attempt saved.
craig bryson (derby county) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
assisted by tom ince.
substitution, derby county.
matej vydra replaces darren bent.
attempt missed.
tom ince (derby county) left footed shot from outside the box is just a bit too high.
assisted by jacob butterfield from a direct free kick.
foul by christophe berra (ipswich town).
darren bent (derby county) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
attempt saved.
kevin bru (ipswich town) right footed shot from a difficult angle on the right is saved in the bottom left corner.
substitution, ipswich town.
kieffer moore replaces brett pitman.
corner,  ipswich town.
conceded by richard keogh.
grant ward (ipswich town) wins a free kick in the defensive half.