media playback is not supported on this device
eighth-tier taunton were playing their ninth game in this season's competition and were the lowest-ranked side left after westfields' exit on monday.
centre-half ed palmer drew them level with a superb free-kick in the 73rd minute, cancelling out a fine 48th-minute opener by barrow winger williams.
but the hosts went back in front within two minutes when a ryan yates cross appeared to be deflected into his own net by josh searle, and that was enough to send the national league side into the second round for the first time since 2012/13.
taunton frustrated the hosts in the first half, with barrow defenders nick anderton and danny livesey both having headers cleared off the line in quick succession.
williams then fired wide while palmer had a free-kick deflected over.
but williams then latched on to a poor clearance to cut inside and curl a superb right-footed effort into the top corner from 20 yards.
palmer stunned the home crowd by curling a 20-yard free-kick into the top corner.
but barrow soon restored their lead and keeper lloyd irish prevented ross hannah, richie bennett and williams making the victory more emphatic.
report supplied by the press association
match ends, barrow 2, taunton town 1.
second half ends, barrow 2, taunton town 1.
ed palmer (taunton town) is shown the yellow card.
attempt saved.
jordan williams (barrow) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
foul by alex-ray harvey (barrow).
adam kelly (taunton town) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
myles anderson (barrow) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
foul by matthew wright (taunton town).
attempt saved.
richard bennett (barrow) header from the centre of the box is saved in the top centre of the goal.
corner,  barrow.
conceded by matt villis.
attempt saved.
ross hannah (barrow) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
matt buse (taunton town) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
liam hughes (barrow) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
foul by matt buse (taunton town).
jordan williams (barrow) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
foul by matthew wright (taunton town).
attempt missed.
ross hannah (barrow) left footed shot from the left side of the box is close, but misses to the left.
substitution, taunton town.
matt buse replaces brett trowbridge.
alex-ray harvey (barrow) wins a free kick on the right wing.
foul by shane white (taunton town).
corner,  taunton town.
conceded by nick wilmer-anderton.
goal!
 barrow 2, taunton town 1.
ryan yates (barrow) left footed shot from long range on the right to the bottom left corner.
assisted by shaun beeley.
goal!
 barrow 1, taunton town 1.
ed palmer (taunton town) from a free kick with a right footed shot to the top right corner.
foul by shaun beeley (barrow).
ed palmer (taunton town) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
corner,  taunton town.
conceded by myles anderson.
attempt blocked.
ross hannah (barrow) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
substitution, taunton town.
adam kelly replaces ollie chamberlain.
hand ball by shane white (taunton town).
attempt saved.
ryan yates (barrow) right footed shot from outside the box is saved in the bottom left corner.
owen irish (taunton town) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
jordan williams (barrow) wins a free kick on the right wing.
foul by owen irish (taunton town).
shane white (taunton town) is shown the yellow card for a bad foul.
ryan yates (barrow) wins a free kick on the right wing.
foul by shane white (taunton town).
shaun beeley (barrow) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
foul by matthew wright (taunton town).
substitution, taunton town.
craig veal replaces jordan rogers.
corner,  barrow.
conceded by lloyd irish.