after a drab game with few chances for either side, mohamed salah teed up el said, who struck firmly past uganda keeper denis onyango on 89 minutes.
uganda's joseph ochaya earlier had a goal correctly disallowed for offside.
the win means egypt play ghana on wednesday with top spot of group d still at stake, while uganda are out of their first tournament since 1978.
ghana secured their place in the quarter-finals with a 1-0 victory over mali earlier on saturday.
on a deteriorating pitch in port-gentil, seven-times champions egypt failed to break down a resolute cranes defence for long periods.
onyango made an impressive clearing header to deny the onrushing salah at the end of an otherwise lifeless first half.
uganda began the second half brightly, forcing veteran egypt goalkeeper essam el hadary to punch several set-pieces clear but ultimately failed to register a shot on target as ochaya turned in faruku miya's through ball from a clearly offside position on 52 minutes.
el said blasted a shot well over when unmarked and marwan mohsen went close for the pharaohs with a header, but egypt appeared to be heading for their second consecutive goalless draw.
however, an otherwise quiet salah showed great composure late on to check his shot and play in el said with a reverse pass, the substitute's close-range shot evading onyango.
uganda now face mali in the final round of group games on wednesday, with mali needing a win and for ghana to beat egypt by two goals or more if they are to qualify.
match ends, egypt 1, uganda 0.
second half ends, egypt 1, uganda 0.
offside, uganda.
murshid jjuko tries a through ball, but muhammad shaban is caught offside.
hand ball by moses oloya (uganda).
kahraba (egypt) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
foul by hassan wasswa (uganda).
offside, egypt.
kahraba tries a through ball, but marwan mohsen is caught offside.
substitution, uganda.
moses oloya replaces denis iguma.
mohamed shafy (egypt) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
foul by khalid aucho (uganda).
goal!
 egypt 1, uganda 0.
abdallah el said (egypt) right footed shot from the centre of the box to the centre of the goal.
assisted by mohamed salah.
attempt missed.
amr warda (egypt) right footed shot from outside the box is too high.
assisted by mohamed shafy.
corner,  uganda.
conceded by ahmed fathy.
attempt blocked.
joseph ochaya (uganda) left footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
assisted by nicholas wadada.
delay over.
they are ready to continue.
substitution, uganda.
nicholas wadada replaces faruku miya.
substitution, egypt.
kahraba replaces trezeguet.
delay in match khalid aucho (uganda) because of an injury.
attempt saved.
marwan mohsen (egypt) left footed shot from outside the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
assisted by amr warda.
tonny mawejje (uganda) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
foul by mohamed elneny (egypt).
delay over.
they are ready to continue.
delay in match mohamed shafy (egypt) because of an injury.
foul by muhammad shaban (uganda).
ali gabr (egypt) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
hand ball by trezeguet (egypt).
attempt missed.
marwan mohsen (egypt) header from the centre of the box is just a bit too high.
assisted by mohamed shafy with a cross following a set piece situation.
foul by murshid jjuko (uganda).
marwan mohsen (egypt) wins a free kick in the attacking half.
godfrey walusimbi (uganda) wins a free kick on the left wing.
foul by ahmed fathy (egypt).
attempt saved.
trezeguet (egypt) right footed shot from the centre of the box is saved in the centre of the goal.
attempt blocked.
trezeguet (egypt) right footed shot from outside the box is blocked.
assisted by amr warda.
substitution, egypt.
amr warda replaces ramadan sobhi.
substitution, uganda.
muhammad shaban replaces geofrey massa.
attempt missed.
abdallah el said (egypt) right footed shot from the centre of the box is high and wide to the right.
foul by joseph ochaya (uganda).
ahmed fathy (egypt) wins a free kick in the defensive half.
substitution, egypt.
abdallah el said replaces tarek hamed.
foul by geofrey massa (uganda).