here are some of the clips from our interviews hosted by andrew neil and jo coburn, with films from our reporting team.
follow us on twitter or 'like' us on  facebook where we look forward to your comments and you can hear more news about upcoming guests and films.
when parliament is sitting, the daily politics is on bbc2 from 1200-1300 on weekdays, with an 1130 start on wednesdays for pmqs, and the sunday politics is on bbc1 from 1100-1215, occasionally moving for live sport and news events.
both have a repeat on bbc parliament at midnight, and are on bbc iplayer for 30 days.
dp and sp facebook site with more interviews and pictures
is the pm's eu renegotiation progressing?
how the smaller parties did in 2015
a look back at ukip's year
a look back at labour's year
has 2015 been a good year for the tories?
who is 2015's daily politics secret santa?
is another recession coming and are we ready?
lga chief on local government finances
what can we learn from election-themed books?
what do the eu referendum polls say?
peers discuss lords reform plans
edward docx's pro-eu christmas poem
john redwood's 'brexit fairy tale'
jon culshaw's review of the year
should fracking under national parks be allowed?
latest on uk's eu renegotiation talks
should prince charles receive cabinet papers?
panel on final pmqs of 2015
soapbox: should motorists over 70 be retested?
guests discuss retesting for motorists aged over 70
is star wars left or right-wing?
should there be a lib-lab pact?
vince cable and chris mullin discuss
chris mullin: 'jeremy corbyn should be given a chance'
what lies ahead in eu membership debate?
what action has the raf taken in syria?
what are the prospects for welsh tories?
why has theresa may lasted so long as home secretary?
peter bone and chris mullin on theresa may
cat smith: 'i don't see ken livingstone playing big role'
peter hunt goes behind the scenes at thatcher auction
is david cameron's eu renegotiation meaningless?
craig mackinlay and cat smith on votes at 16
daniel hannan: when you know the pm is going to back staying in, why would you make any concessions?
damian green: benefits in terms of jobs and prosperity would be put at risk if the uk leaves the eu
daniel hannan on climate deal: 'it's a step in the right direction'
hannah stuart: 'we cannot whitewash shaker aamer claims'
full clip: should voting age be lowered for eu referendum?
daniel hannan and damian green discuss eu talks
bradford council toast 'ban' criticised
burgon: criticism on stop the war are proxy attacks on corbyn
christmas corbyn dressed as santa in archived footage
who exactly are stop the war?
what could 2016 have in store for politics?
'jungle' refugee camp in calais
katie hopkins backs donald trump: 'we have lost control of some areas'
katie hopkins: 'my friends won't go to london'
zac goldsmith on his opposition to heathrow expansion
where does labour stand on new heathrow runway?
jeremy corbyn wins beard of the year
john prescott discusses climate talks
does it help to be clever in politics?
willetts: 'we must get on with airport expansion'
why do mps go on political journeys?
david willetts on the pm's eu renegotiations
lord reid: i was a communist 45 years go
how clever is david 'two brains' willetts?
conservative mp stewart jackson on electoral fraud
chancellor announces floods funding
pmqs analysis with laura kuenssberg
'we have to wait and see what pm achieves' - andrea leadsom
lucy powell discusses state of the labour party
soapbox: what is being done to tackle knife crime?
guests discuss knife crime prevention
dorries: maybe flooding is part of 21st century life
'i don't think we are so out of step on eu reform' - laura sandys
will universal credit make some worse off?
should third runway at heathrow be built?
are moves to deselect labour mps fair?
will universal credit make a difference?
is parliament too posh?
tim farron: 'questions should be asked on flood defences'
what role does momentum play in labour party?
giles fraser: 'scrap bishops in the house of lords'
before the secret ballot at elections
unseating a political giant: what's it like?
ten years of david cameron as tory leader
oldham west by-election result analysis
german mep on eu reform talks
are there 70,000 anti-is fighters in syria?
stephen kinnock on 'intimidation' of labour mps
daniel hannan on eu reform talks
activist calls for mp reselection
mp and activists debate labour intimidation claims
labour's john mann on intimidation of mps: 'this is the mob'
crispin blunt on next steps in syria
quentin letts on syria strikes debate
how should the bbc refer to militants in syria and iraq?
westminster as a setting for fiction
rifkind and royall discuss syria vote
caroline flint and john baron on syria
creagh and lucas debate syria strikes
the fbu re-affiliates to labour
mps discuss eu-turkey migrants deal
mps discuss uk's green credentials
oldham west by-election preview
moths infest 'dull and dusty' lords
mps discuss case for air strikes
should labour mps be whipped on syria?
chris bryant on syria air strikes
should government cut party funding?
fizzy drinks tax moodbox
mps on sugary drinks tax proposals
should tory chairman quit?
what will climate conference achieve?
what does the public think about airstrikes in syria?
should labour mps back syria strikes?
spending review analysis with obr
yougov on syria and public opinion
andrew lansley on net migration figures
spending review tax credits analysis
why is nhs reform so hard?
have nhs reforms been beneficial?
has the pm persuaded
'mao would have been horrified'
the main spending review measures
bbc editors on the spending review
stewart hosie: 'he still plans to cut £42bn a year'
green party and plaid cymru on spending review
lib dems and ukip on spending review
experts discuss downed russian jet
debate on nhs funding
johnson and o'hara debate trident
johnson: defence review not corbyn's 'finest moment'
left unity backs jeremy corbyn
oxford union debates eu membership
labour's syria and trident policies
why is the government selling off property?
is the defence review a good deal?
will mps back air strikes in syria?
are there more 'rough weeks' ahead for labour?
lord lawson: osborne should look at raising fuel duty
caroline flint: we should look at military action
political week in 60 seconds
reid: it is a sad time for labour
is labour at a tipping point?
james landale reviews labour's week
should the hedgehog be the uk's national symbol?
mood box: men's v women's issues
livingstone should resign - labour mp
what is the junior doctors row about?
alex salmond on syria air strikes
abbott: mcdonnell 'doesn't want to disband mi5'
labour mp: i'll rebel on syria vote
should 16-year-olds vote in the eu referendum?
pm and corbyn clash over police numbers
corbyn questions pm on security funding
pm: uk 'can't dodge forever' air strikes question
pm: we will not be cowed by terrorists
snp quizzes pm on syria sir strikes
labour mp refuses to back corbyn
laura kuenssberg's pmqs review
laura kuenssberg on the state of the labour party
laura kuenssberg on the government's strategy for a syria airstrikes vote
what is the uk's counter-extremism policy?
how hard will the police budget be hit?
cooper: i disagree with corbyn on shoot-to-kill
mp criticises stop the war's paris comment
how to combat home-grown extremism?
mps 'will vote with conscience' on syria
'tackling islamist extremism ideology'
mp: is must be defeated by ground troops
is exploiting migrant crisis - ukip
reaction to sir nicholas houghton comments on jeremy corbyn
galloway on the style of reagan and corbyn
welfare spending: too much or too little?
cbi and ukip clash on eu and euro policy
reaction to egypt plane crash and isil
heidi alexander: junior doctor proposal 'bad for patient safety'
how could a labour leadership challenge take place?
corbyn 'wrong' on iraq - labour mp
winston mckenzie: 'all of london is becoming a dump'
winston mckenzie - ex-ukip candidate on 'racist abuse'
film: free hugs for some on million mask march
adam clifford: mask march showed 'desperation of the people'
no free hugs between julia hartley brewer and adam clifford
iain watson on egypt-uk flights
howarth and marshall on uk-egypt relations
abbott defends stop the war meeting
abbott: i was subject of undercover policing
archer: 'wonderful' if corbyn helping book sales
why are sales of das kapital on the rise?
where's the 'ed stone'?
diane abbott asked about committee chairs
norman smith on egypt security situation
abbott: no corbyn colouring book for me
introducing diane abbott
does jack dromey back trident renewal?
virtue signalling: 'it requires little effort and no sacrifice'
corbyn: no winter crisis in nhs this year?
pm on tax credits: you will find out in three weeks’ time
government planning to 'imperil' channel 4?
snp leader quizzes pm on military covenant
kuenssberg: a rather strange pmqs to me
passports designed to celebrate uk's creative and cultural past
liam byrne interview: should labour re-write its clause iv?
nick gibb interview: return of school tests for seven-year-olds?
film: stamp duty changes effect on housing market
crispin blunt interview: position in syria 'much more complicated'
stamp duty debate: jacob rees-mogg v owen jones
john healey: starter homes 'non-starter for most families'
why do we still commemorate guy fawkes?
does the trade union movement need a makeover?
women and men debate: phillips v davies
moodbox film: is security or privacy more important?
keir starmer: there is a need to update surveillance laws
keir starmer: communication laws need to be modernised
david davis: 'judicial authorisation of surveillance warrants needed'
philip davis: men's issues should be debated in commons
philip davies: why i blocked free parking bill
draft investigatory powers bill (and will labour support be needed?)
european political week in 60 seconds
what is un doing about climate change?
david shukman on un climate change report
how migrant numbers are stretching eu services
has labour learned from election mistakes?
meet the neighbours: poland
what is going on after the portuguese election?
phone roaming charges to be abolished: honeyball and nuttall
laura kuenssberg: what's going on in iceland summit?
what will pm get out of nordic summit talks?
chris mason on chilcot report publication in june/july 2016
oborne on chilcot report and radio documentary
who is the top dog at westminster?
uk population to reach 70m by 2027
looks at the career in of lord bilimoria
the lib dem leads to ask pmqs question on migrants and refugees
pmqs: farron and cameron on uk and lesbos refugees
pmqs: cameron and corbyn on tax credit cut 'guarantee'
pmqs: cameron and corbyn on karen's tax credit question
pmqs: jeremy corbyn's tribute to michael meacher
pmqs: cameron and burns on bullying in house of commons
landale and mps review pmqs
matthew syed: health service 'should learn from mistakes'
steve baker from the voteleave campaign
reynolds and macneil: happiest and most miserable places in the uk?
tax credits reaction: owen smith and david davis
tory mp: this is quite without precedence
bogdanor: 'very serious constitutional problems'
'huge mandate to turn around' scottish labour
film: speaker starts to speak out on big issues
debate: why is the speaker in a bad mood?
is it time for laws to be recorded on paper?
wood on plaid: 'time now for fresh thinking'
rob flello: let's get rid of the calais jungle
oakeshott: 'i told you so' is never a good look
could boundary changes lead to the deselection of non-corbynite mps?
ken livingstone: mps who defy corbyn should face reselection
clarke and farron on tax credit cuts
was anyone paying attention to yanis varoufakis?
film and interview: what now for yanis varoufakis?
lords v commons: newby v rees-mogg
does it matter what political leaders look like
scottish lessons for ukip on eu referendum?
mps start debating evel plans
peer's bill to limit the influence of sharia law in uk
danczuk on watson's historic sex abuse claims
tough questions for nigel farage?
nuclear power: burke on hinkley point, edf and china
image makeover in jeremy corbyn's wardrobe
pmqs: corbyn and cameron clash on tax credits
pmqs: what is government doing for uk steel industry?
pmqs: cameron to corbyn: go back to 1985 and stay there
pmqs: speaker bercow rejects question from chris philp
pmqs:  snp questions pm on suicide after benefit loss
mps review cameron and corbyn at pmqs
john hayes on tax credit cuts: what would they cut?'
security services' new powers to hack into smartphones
liberty on hacking powers
hayes and bryant on powers for security services
tory mp: tax credit cuts 'punishing people'
chris mason: what's going on with #taxcredits debate?
the end of the steel industry in scotland?
warner: only ethical thing for me to do is leave
why are international mayors meeting in london?
'david cameron lied' on tax credits, claims labour mp
where do parties stand on tax credits?
what parties are seeing a rise in membership?
should uk be wary of chinese 'trap doors'?
former gchq director-general on wilson doctrine and listening to mps
mp: corbyn will hold private meeting with president xi jinping
should cabinet members be allowed to speak freely on #euref ?
former gchq director-general on wilson doctrine and listening to mps
mitchell: osborne will have to 'tweak' fiscal plan
who is the true anti-austerity party: labour or snp?
was tom watson right to make child abuse allegations?
moodbox: is corbyn a turn on or turn off?
tom watson's role in sex abuse claims
how falling prices are hitting uk and its oil capital
a tour around the snp conference venue
snp deputy leader on oil prices and health record
protest to be held over new junior doctor contract
political week in 60 seconds
nicola sturgeon is asked about #indyref2 in dp moodbox
dp panellist not so keen on eu talks interview
dp guide to cameron bid for new eu deal
health chair wants 'at least £4bn' for nhs this year
labour mp and snp msp on fiscal charter vote
are 'shared space' roadways safe?
are grammar schools coming back?
nicola sturgeon opens snp conference in aberdeen
pmqs: corbyn quizzes cameron on kelly's tax credits
pmqs: 'work together and get london building to get prices down'
pmqs: cameron tells speaker: hold on a minute
pmqs: snp leader made ‘so many errors’ in pmqs question
'policy clear' on tax credits, says gauke
gauke and greenwood review pmqs
£5,000 cheque after naked whitehall run
blogger's 'naked' run along whitehall after election bet
life for labour under corbyn
labour under corbyn: akehurst and landin
mcdonnell 'fingers badly burnt and he needs to learn'
a new flag for new zealand?
immigration bill: dromey v bone
nigel evans on tom watson's claims about lord brittan
damian green on eu future: idea of 'a new country' is a fantasy
labour's jo cox: i back humanitarian intervention on syria
labour mp: colleagues have 'nothing to fear' over momentum group
should climate change be a government priority?
moodbox: should the government make climate change a priority or not a priority?
paterson: 'unwise' of lawyers to raise concerns on migrant crisis
farage: i support both 'out' campaigns
left or centre?
what position should labour take?
farage on eu referendum: i support both 'out' campaigns
nigel farage: i support both eu 'out' campaigns
mary creagh: labour must remain 'firmly' on the centre ground
eu referendum: battle between the rival campaigns
should parliamentarians report historical abuse allegations to the police?
at what point does a protest go too far?
adam fleming film on protests
parliament: privy council membership and traditions
can politicians do comedy?
what political direction for the conservatives?
should tories sit in the middle or move to the right?
how did police cope with 'largest ever demonstration in greater manchester'
where does labour stand on eu?
where do tories stand on the eu?
gove and neil on government housing record
cameron pledges 'great british take-off'
cameron talks about equality of opportunity
'generation rent to generation buy'
cameron: i was a hooker
cameron cheered for corbyn criticism
'a brief moment when i thought it was all a dream'
cameron recalls election victory
conference accommodation for £10 a night
ups and downs for the conservatives over the last year
“you are one of my favourite pupils” michael gove tells andrew neil
testing the environment secretary
what century does lord heseltine live in?
who do tories want as their next leader?
'the uk is a bright spot compared to many other economies right now'
fox: i would like to see us reduce the deficit more quickly
'britain does not need net migration in the hundreds of thousands'
why are conservatives not cutting uk net migration?
who are osborne's heroes and favourites?
tory delegates asked: in or out of the eu?
osborne: we are the builders
osborne talks 'living wage' and slavery
osborne: i will work with anyone
osborne: no 'tombstone' in downing street garden
gauke on conservative economic policies
hancock on tax credits and labour policies
sajid javid: we're supporting redcar workers
building the official campaigns for and against eu membership
eu referendum: the battle of the 'in' and 'out' campaigns begins
oakeshott: i dish it out, i should be able to take it
do we know how dozens of tory mps will vote in #euref
runners and riders for next tory leader
taking a ride with the artist taxi driver
galloway's bid to be mayor of london
why was corbyn heckled over israel?
tories pick goldsmith as next mayoral candidate
raft of elections in may 2016
former times sketchwriter ann treneman's favourite political moments
who is your favourite labour party leader?
photo-bomber spider on screen makes it to the web
cabs v uber: mcnamara v jenrick
syria debate: clarke and balagadde
political history repeating itself over the eu?
would past pms have authorised nuclear weapons?
zahawi: uk spending £25m on new jamaican jail is 'smart aid'
should members or mps have the biggest say?
should there be humour in a party conference speech?
corbyn: a decent home for everybody
'two million people could lose their right to vote'
corbyn: trident 'not the right way forward'
corbyn: where is the security?
corbyn thanks miliband and harman
‘newspapers have taken a bit of interest in me’
ashworth: people were fed up with politicians like me
'not an advocate for qe to print money outside a recession'
labour delegates asked: power or principles?
images of jeremy corbyn's career
ups and downs for labour over the last year
bbc political editor on jeremy corbyn speech
getting views of corbyn speech at #lab15
what do labour delegates think about trident?
labour mp tells presenter: 'you're missing the point'
hilary benn asked about diane abbott comments
jeremy corbyn helps speaker 'stuck' on conference stage
labour conference: mcdonnell message to scottish voters
labour conference: macdonnell on bank of england review
leslie: best for corbyn to have chancellor on 'same wavelength'
prescott: corbyn has 'a bigger mandate than blair'
what next for ukip heading towards eu referendum?
farron, osborne and corbyn in 60 seconds
montage: highlights of the year for ukip
ukip leader nigel farage warns of eu 'open-door policy'
ukip leader nigel farage: 'we want our country back'
ukip leader nigel farage uses speech to make case for eu exit
theresa may 'was hard as nails'
what is eu doing about migrants at its borders?
labour has to come across as ‘party of the future’
film: have migration images changed uk attitudes?
film: ukip gathers for its annual conference
ukip's lessons from general election result
tim farron: from activist to party leader
do lib dem voters prefer cameron or corbyn?
lib dem conference: tim farron on charles kennedy
lib dem conference: tim farron invokes joni mitchell
lib dem conference: farron's first leader speech
dan hannan mep on resettling migrants
how the lib dem conference has changed
could there be another sdp in uk politics?
should lib dems accept or reject a peerage?
could new contracts see a lack of junior doctors?
archive images of vince cable's political career
vince cable on student fees and losing his seat
nhs 'can't cope with scale of funding gap'
lib dems on clegg: hero or zero?
artist's images of the general election campaign
'why would you create one when lib dems already exist?'
can labour renationalise the railways?
will blogger finally carry out naked run pledge?
lord falconer: labour 'should not apologise' for iraq
getting the views of lib dems at their conference
jeremy corbyn's first week as labour leader
mps hold their own rugby world cup match
dodds: mcdonnell played 'no role whatsoever' in peace process
what could trigger a second scottish referendum?
why a town is revelling in political misery
left or right?
libertarian or authoritarian?
corbynomics author backs 'modest amounts of inflation'
do english democrats back shooting of rioting migrants?
dodds to keep 'very close eye' on new labour leadership
nuclear weapons debate: jenkin v hudson
mood box: do voters want to retain trident?
how easy is it to impersonate jeremy corbyn?
one or two andrew neils in the studio?
sex worker charlotte rose on brothels and prostitution
pm: they should be ashamed of themselves
corbyn: i thought i would do it in a different way
‘i had more than 1,000 questions on tax credits’
political editor on first corbyn-cameron pmqs
past leaders making their pmqs debut
welfare and tax credits: smith v gauke
blue collar voters: labour mp jamie reed
blue collar voters: tory mp robert halfon
new labour leader has a love of manholes
blue collar voters: labour mp jamie reed
what do mps make of their behaviour at pmqs?
will corbyn help change pmqs?
livingstone: we are not going to repeat that mistake
trades union bill proposals: serwotka v hancock
reaction to the first corbyn shadow cabinet
backbench views of new labour shadow cabinet
lamb and davies on the assisted dying bill
looking back on the labour leadership campaign
eu reaction to juncker calls to help 160,000 migrants
london mayor 2016: sadiq khan to be labour candidate
eu politics: putin, juncker, farage, seals and sheep
israeli pm in london for talks with cameron
more shops to charge for carrier bag use
lucas and young on uk help for syrian refugees
film: who will take in syrian refugees?
voting closes in labour leadership race
last pmqs for harman as labour leader
harriet harman's last dp interview as labour leader
cameron tribute at harman's final pmqs as labour leader
why some won't celebrate royal milestone
pmqs: abrahams and cameron on sickness benefit claims
pmqs: cameron on northern and great western rail works
pmqs: cameron and cox on syria and public opinion
pmqs: robertson on intelligence and security committee
pmqs: dodds and cameron on northern irish security
reviewing first pmqs after the recess
why did labour change its leadership election rules?
davis: they were trying to rig the referendum
danczuk: corbyn supporters 'need to be less suspicious'
miliband spin doctor: ed stone was not our finest hour
zahawi and robertson on uk use of drones in syria
will a new leader unite the labour party?
eu referendum debate: mitchell, hunt and carswell
how migrants and refugees dominated the summer news
is it right for the uk to accept more syrians?
labour mp: voting against welfare bill was 'a very difficult decision'
hancock: progress being made on manifesto commitments
'sensible' twitter guide for mps?
a look inside the serjeant at arms' office in the commons
politicians and their 'weighty issues'
timms on welfare bill: labour will fight 'tooth and nail'
labour has a 'narrow view of what is realistic'
martin vickers: delays to rail electrification 'disappointing'
maajid nawaz: 'change in attitude' needed towards islamist extremism
labour leadership debate
corbyn for shadow cabinet - any takers?
jeremy corbyn: vote for me because...
andy burnham: vote for me because...
liz kendall: vote for me because...
yvette cooper: vote for me because...
tuc chief: strikes 'always the last resort'
mahmood on labour and crabb on evell
should the government do more to ban 'pro-anorexia' websites?
pmqs: pm quizzed on scrapping maintenance grants
pmqs: harman presses cameron on greece
pmqs: cameron and harman on national living wage
pmqs: cameron on migrant controls
pmqs: cameron on strike action
james landale and mps review pmqs
iain stewart mp: snp are 'playing politics'
angus robertson: tories trying to make snp mps 'second class'
powell on child tax credits: there are 'complex cases'
'one nation' is why conservatives are still around
anyone but jeremy corbyn?
whose fault is the gender pay gap?
stephen kinnock: greek referendum was a mistake
frank field: labour leadership contenders 'offering the same'
snp mp pete wilshart: evel plans 'a shambles'
mood box vote: are our strike laws tough enough?
harman: 'no blanket opposition" to government welfare proposals
nick clegg not 'eyeing up some cushy brussels job'
britain's 'lagging' infrastructure is holding up the building of more homes
mark field mp on the 'importance' of building more homes
can the uk remain pre-eminent in financial services?
louise cooper: banks an 'easy political target'
is fox hunting laws a party-political issue?
lord lawson: budget was 'radical'
shabana mahmood: osborne is 'putting the cart before the horse'
rmt's steve hadley: 'tube strike about industrial dispute, not politics'
budget 2015: we need a 'lower taxes & higher pay' system
danny alexander: i had a 'good run' as mp & 'may' stand again
banned sexy mp website 'was a bit of a joke', says founder
'no' vote is 'no victory' for greece
nusrat ghani mp: it's right that we cap welfare
budget: what should the chancellor do?
a 'new look' westminster
what will the boundary change review mean for us?
salmond: an aerial campaign in syria would need ground support
political week in 60 seconds
students fees in england to rise again?
martin lewis: 'staggered and angry' over david willetts
can, and will, uk take part in syrian air strikes?
is the 72-word referendum question all greek to you?
english votes for english laws (evel)
could uk take part in air strikes against so-called islamic state?
looking back over last year for the snp
looking back on #ge2015 & #indyref with john nicolson
budget: willson on petrol prices and fuel duty rise
pmqs: cameron and skinner on miners' pensions
pmqs: cameron and chishti on islamic state and daesh terms
pmqs: cameron and harman on help after tunisia attacks
pmqs harman and cameron on heathrow airport expansion
pmqs: cameron and robertson on scottish powers and votes
pmqs: nick robinson and mps review cameron v harman
pmqs: harman on women's world cup semi-final
pmqs: cameron on women's world cup semi-final
tory mps on cameron 2009 heathrow pledge
mary creagh on air strikes in libya
the battle between music and noise
leslie and lucas on greek and eurozone finances
film: a 60-second guide to fracking
fracking debate: lilley and lucas
does lucas want to be green leader again?
blunt and ashraf on uk reaction to tunisia attacks
cooper and rigby: what now for greece?
pride march's sex toy symbols confused for isis support
tunisia attack: is see ramadan as 'a month of war'
nigel farage: migrant crisis is 'flooding europe with jihadists'
hilary benn: 'honest debate' needed on surveillance powers
week ahead: what lies ahead for greece?
syed kamall: pm will push for treaty change before 2017
ukip's david coburn: 'i'm gay, you can't get more gay then me'
should ukip be banned from gay pride?
snp mp: all parties 'should work together' to end cyber abuse
is 'welching' really an offensive word?
mediterranean migrants debate: davies v moraes
will it be harder to make a foi request?
why does sadiq khan think he would be a good mayor of london?
how immigration has been a key issue for decades
lord green on the work of migration watch
yes or no: eustice asked about #euref
what can go in the recycling bin?
no gender pay gay for mps appearing on dp
film: should women be paid as much as men?
debate: should women be paid as much as men?
pmqs: robinson, flint and eustice on cameron v harman
pmqs: cameron and harman on action over calais migrants
pmqs: cameron and harman on tax credits and pay levels
pmqs: cameron and robertson on scotland bill powers
pmqs: cameron and bradshaw on bike deaths and lorry ban
europe debate: elliott and blunkett
copyright protection for some images of european landmarks?
gibb: ‘coasting schools’ definition out next week
greek finances: halligan and blunkett
blunkett: labour 'ought to have been much louder '
prefer to travel via a black cab or a phone app?
welfare debate: sunak, west, and brake
immigration and nhs staffing debate
offering £1,000 to attend a job interview
macintosh: we have to offer something different
diane abbott: corbyn will 'shock' people
liam fox: pm could get 'different cabinet' if collective responsibility is enforced
ukip's steven woolfe: farage 'not' divisive character & will lead 'no' campaign
what's going on with conservatives and the eu campaign?
bloom: you've got to understand how ukip works
brant: ukip have frozen out suzanne evans as they see her 'as a bit of a threat'
political week in 60 seconds
can we ever trust the polls again?
reaction to jeremy hunt new deal for gps announcements
greek debate and eurozone future: odendahl, heath and evans
film: farage resignation and future of ukip
suzanne evans on ukip future and eu referendum
papal encyclical on climate change: cafod and delingpole
film: papal encyclical on the environment and past messages from rome
evans and and evans on parliamentary repairs
ex-minister wants estates turned into 'city villages'
pmqs: osborne takes first question on london housing
pmqs: robertson and osborne on chilcot report delay
pmqs: osborne and lucas on fossil fuels and pensions
pmqs: hilary benn questions george osborne on extremism
pmqs: speaker suggests yoga to mp after hot curry
reviewing osborne and benn at pmqs with landale and mps
bulgarian foreign minister on david cameron and new uk-eu deal
eu referendum debate: jenkin and benn
dugdale: time for a new generation of people
where's the betting money going on the labour leadership races?
hodges and jones: who will be next labour leader and deputy?
robin brant on ukip staff changes and 'another unresignation'
ken clarke claims public do not understanding purdah
james landale explaining eu referendum bill
prof david nutt on psychoactive substances bill
the theatre of westminster select committees
salmond on eu referendum and future scottish referendum
mps and historians talk magna carta and human rights
corbyn: 'two minutes to spare' to get on labour nomination
what does it take to be select committee chairman?
who is the right person to become the next labour leader?
leslie: labour didn't have a 'strong enough economic message'
eu referendum: should we stay or should we go?
week ahead: labour leadership, george osborne and british spies
european political week in 60 seconds
200 years since the battle of waterloo
meet the neighbours: ireland
rogers: i don't talk about relations with any member of parliament
hosie on obr report and scottish economics
eu postpones vote on ttip
why do some oppose the ttip trade deal?
a question of trust: government report on surveillance powers
new mp: normal people applaud, they don't make that weird grunting noise
cameron negotiations about 'unity of the conservative party'
rogers: i don't talk about relations with any member of parliament
clip: john prescott tells david miliband to 'shut up'
full interview: prescott on labour leadership race and miliband comments
tory mp nigel evans wants anonymity for rape suspects
pmqs: cameron and harman on eu referendum voting age
pmqs: cameron on jenkyns winning ed balls' former seat
pmqs: cameron and huddleston on cotswold line trains
pmqs: cameron and shah on bradford and northern powerhouse
pmqs: robinson, smith and hancock on cameron v harman
andrew offers mp some tips after 'gobbledygook' claim
mp challenged over swedish surplus claims
eagle: i am the unity candidate, i am not in a faction
referendum debate: davies and grady
explaining the human rights act and a possible british bill of rights
falconer and davies on human rights and a bill of rights
falconer and fletcher on the assisted dying bill
tatchell on london pride ban for ukip
mood box vote: in or out of the eu?
referendum debate: reckless and campbell bannerman
scotland bill debate: hosie and stewart
farron apology over tatchell comments
what do the germans think of the brits?
stella creasy: i can work with anyone
do mps deserve a pay rise?
tim farron: you don't rule out any coalition
how bad are things for the lib dems?
baker: at some stage there will need to be an eu 'out' campaign
kawczynski on 'increasing frustration with the government'
why i started the milifandom campaign
economy debate: field and mahmood
decision due on airport expansion in south east england?
cutting £250,000 scheme into gull research 'frankly daft'
reviewing the political week in 60 seconds
bradshaw: only candidate not from the north or london
'of course' mps should take £7,000 pay rise says former cabinet member
revelations about the labour election campaign
union 'in grave danger' says forsyth
tory mp v stop the cull on badgers and dairy farmers
john read: you're paying the obscene cost of litter
can we trust opinion polls again?
lords v commons in a real tug of war
pmqs: cameron and robertson on mediterranean refugees
pmqs: cameron and harman on child benefit and tax credits
pmqs: cameron and harman on home ownership figures
pmqs: cameron and abbott on more powers for london
pmqs: cameron and smith on aaa rating and labour leadership
pmqs: landale and mps review cameron v harman
campbell on kennedy: relations between himself and myself were a bit cool to begin with
who else could analyse the scottish referendum dressed as a christmas elf?
will a tory-dominated commons struggle with the lords?
why do councils own golf courses, restaurants, pubs and hotels?
snp won't share referendum platform with conservatives
pre-school learning alliance: '£250m shortfall' over child care plan
'we're extending the current offer by 15 hours, specifically for working parents'
british bill of rights to replace the human rights act?
time for electoral reform?
talking pr, av and fptp
177 new faces in parliament
german mp says 'the earlier the better' for uk eu referendum
eu referendum debate: sandys and hopkins
ken clarke on eu: pm is not asking to repatriate any powers
pm 'not ambitious enough' in eu talks
tom watson: i have got a reputation for being a tough campaigner
george galloway on london mayoral campaign
what is the secret to running a good referendum campaign?
will snp mps continue to clap in the commons?
a new view inside the house of commons
hatton bidding to rejoin the labour party
'we did not do enough, there are things we could have done differently
'those of who who have followed the fifa saga for a while have seen this day coming'
a one-minute video guide to the political week
betting on new labour top team
new mps finding their feet at westminster
carswell: i was incredibly frightened
steve hilton steps in front of the cameras
mary creagh: labour 'needs a fresh voice'
roger helmer mep: media has built some 'really minor issues' in ukip
norman lamb: 'i think the lib dems are needed more than ever'
carswell: farage should take a break...as leader, not from being leader
bradshaw: umunna quitting race 'tragic'
eu week: migration, ttip, russia, eurozone and greece
european union views on uk bid for eu renegotiation
irish republic referendum over legalising gay marriages
uk referendum on eu membership: lambert, arnott and fox
hosie on cameron-sturgeon talks
4m ukip voters 'expect something better and different from this'
who will be the new labour leader?
is cameron modernising the conservative party?
should union strike laws be toughened up?
time for a lib dem rebrand?
new mps in commons: mclaughlin, arkless, huq, cleverly
naked bloggers on the run: dan hodges and stephen tall
bremner talks cameron, ashdown, hague and polar bears
should ukip accept 'short money' from westminster?
could zac goldsmith mp stand down over heathrow airport expansion?
kennedy, lester and dobbs on lords' role in new government
election 2015: bedford voters' views on labour policies
ids, churchill, mandelson, salmond and farage return
how many billions extra does the nhs need?
fears for bbc future under new culture secretary?
milburn and creasy: where next for labour?
why is david lammy not standing for labour leadership?
carswell on ukip calls for political reform
former lib dem mp on 'complete disaster'
election night: behind the scenes
election 2015: liz kendall: we didn't set out a positive enough alternative
election 2015: how much say will the unions have over the labour leadership?
election 2015: 'radical, popular capitalism' is what ukip should offer, says carswell
bbc election index
election 2015: daily politics campaign highlights
election 2015: reporter heckled in live tv report
election 2015: final day of campaigning
election 2015: key count and overall result timings
election 2015: sailors in medway yacht club in kent
election 2015: on campaign trail with george osborne
election 2015 smaller parties: above and beyond
election 2015: politicians on trust in politics debate
election 2015: napoleonic association team on voting
election 2015: new look for results swingometer
election 2015: cameron, miliband and clegg campaigns
election 2015 smaller parties: respect george galloway
oldest conservative think-tank suggests voting ukip
evans and hitchens: time for electoral reform?
election 2015: battleground constituencies and seats
election 2015: debates and speeches in campaign final days
election 2015: english local council seats contested
election 2015 smaller parties: communities united
just a minute (two 30-second pledges)
hague: child benefit under tories "would stay as it is now"
swinney: it's clear "some senior labour figures" want to deal with snp
leslie: don't think there will be a minority labour government
election 2015: meet the leaders...in 24 hours
election 2015: jo coburn on question time interviews
election 2015 smaller parties: british national party (bnp)
election 2015: workers at lincolnshire flour mill
election 2015: suspended candidates on ballot papers
election 2015: party leaders faces on cakes and gnomes
election 2015: views of scottish forestry workers
election 2015 smaller parties: alliance for green socialism
election 2015: adam fleming thursday campaign report
what happened to the green surge?
coalition tensions over tax and welfare claims
can you see the resemblance with a certain blond bombshell?
election 2015: adam fleming's wednesday campaign report
election 2015: is it similar to the 1992 general election?
election 2015 smaller parties: animal welfare party
election 2015: views from wheelchair basketball players in carlisle
election 2015: daily politics debate on health
election 2015: jeremy hunt on £8bn nhs funding
election 2015 health debate: ukip on park smoking ban
can music and tv choices on social media explain your voting intentions?
labour on tory ‘panicky gimmicky response’
hague: we are in a very different situation now from five years ago
hanson on labour immigration plans
election 2015: ellie price's tuesday campaign report
election 2015: harriet harman and the labour pink bus
election 2015 smaller parties: class war party
election 2015: voters views from shropshire gliders
election 2015: daily politics debate on defence and security
election 2015: vernon coaker on labour trident policy
election 2015: jo coburn's monday campaign report
election 2015: voters in thurrock on eu referendum
election 2015 smaller parties: the whig party
election 2015: daily politics debate on home affairs
gauke challenged over pro-tory names in newspaper letter
american view of the british general election
ukip and tories hurting each other and risking referendum?
reynolds and gauke on rent increase controls
election 2015: may on conservative migration target
tessa jowell: three year leases 'not compulsory'
sajid javid: 'no apologies' for economy focus
laws: 'not interested' in snp & ukip government
election 2015: how is poll data conducted? - -
election 2015: adam fleming's friday campaign report
election 2015: voters views from oxford knitters
election 2015 smaller parties: socialist labour and scottish socialist
hague: libya has gone seriously backwards
coaker on miliband's foreign policy comments
hague: english flag 'lying in the dirt'
economy debate - round 2: gauke v leslie
ifs' gemma tetlow on party manifesto claims
election 2015: jo coburn's thursday campaign report
election 2015: voters views in northamptonshire
election 2015 smaller parties: english democrats
election 2015: daily politics debate on education
election 2015: tristram hunt on unqualified teachers
election 2015: how confidence-and-supply can work
election 2015: andrew neil's wednesday campaign report
gyimah and smith on party offers for parents of pre-school children
is milifandom real?
election 2015: voters views in sheffield
election 2015 smaller parties: we are the reality party
election 2015: daily politics debate on the economy
election 2015: leslie and hosie on salmond budget claim
election 2015: andrew neil's tuesday campaign report
election 2015 smaller parties: yorkshire first
election 2015: daily politics debate on foreign affairs
jamie reed asked: how would labour fund nhs plans?
election 2015: andrew neil's monday campaign report
election 2015 smaller parties: north east party (nep)
election debate on environment and climate change
election 2015: parties' stances on rural fuel duty
kezia dugdale: not surprised of a tory-snp deal
john swinney: to end austerity, vote snp
do manifestos matter?
nigel farage blames cameron 'fanaticism' for libya migrant crisis
eagle: labour will speak to any party to 'build a majority'
election 2015: reaction to bbc leader debate
election 2015: funny moments on the campaign trail
election 2015: voting views of hunters in warwickshire
election 2015 smaller parties: socialist party of gb
curran: i would not write us off yet
election 2015: vine on leader ratings ahead of debate
election 2015: andrew neil previews leaders' debate
election 2015: voting views of rafters in snowdonia
election 2015: alan hope on monster raving loony plans
election 2015: devon pigs in race to downing street
scottish conservatives launch campaign manifesto
brennan on labour education policy
election 2015: andrew neil's wednesday campaign report
election 2015: cheshire musicians on how they will vote
polish prince challenges ukip's nigel farage to duel
election 2015 smaller parties: liberal steve radford
o'flynn on ukip manifesto launch
election 2015: political views of yorkshire blacksmiths
election 2015: green party leader natalie bennett
election 2015 smaller parties: pirate party
election 2015: housing dominates tuesday campaign report
election 2015: plaid cymru wants elected head of state
truss: vitally important we help more people own their own home
reynolds: they just simply don't know where this money is going to come from
alexander on tory and lib dem housing policies
green plans to hit tax avoiders and introduce 60p tax rate
election 2015 smaller parties: davie nellist on tusc plans
election 2015: manifesto launches from history
election 2015: andrew neil's monday campaign report
greens finally launch election poster campaign
chuka umunna on labour election launch
sajid javid on tory and labour manifesto launches
election 2015: cuts and spending - what the lib dems are offering
election 2015: what are the polls telling us?
election 2015: inheritance tax is the wrong priority, says danny alexander
election 2015: week ahead - the unveiling of manifestos
election 2015: expenditure on the nhs will be a priority, says david gauke
election 2015:  voting issues for bristol prop makers
election 2015 smaller parties: national health action (nha)
election 2015: northampton voters offered political mug
election 2015: andrew neil's friday campaign report
rail fares debate: eric pickles v jack dromey
election 2015: andrew neil's thursday campaign report
thatcher's armoured bus from northern ireland for sale
election 2015 smaller parties: liberty gb
election 2015: voting issues for somerset stonemasons
election 2015: games and online sites about voting
election 2015: ed balls talking about non-dom status
election 2015: andrew neil's wednesday campaign report
election 2015: voting issues for cornwall cheese-makers
election: christian people's alliance and christian party
mahmood on labour bid to abolish non-dom rules
election 2015: tory and lib dems on coalition taxes
election 2015 smaller parties: peace party policies
election 2015: voters at national aquarium in plymouth
election 2015: opinion polls and role of focus groups
election 2015: priti patel and chris leslie on europe
election 2015: priti patel and chris leslie on health
election 2012: market affected by hung parliament results
election 2015 smaller parties: community party of britain
election 2015: tv viewers asked about leaders' debate
election 2015: andrew neil's thursday campaign report
election 2015: how union members could affect vote
election 2015: labour or conservative choice on economy
election 2015: andrew neil's wednesday campaign report
election 2015: trader on labour's zero hours contract policy
election 2015: independence from europe party
election 2015: rat, hedgehog, james bond and joey essex
zero hours contract debate: javid, cable and leslie
election 2015: andrew neil's campaign morning report
election 2015: tax levels in uk and other countries
election 20105: voters views on political campaigns
election 2015: plaid leader leanne wood at party launch
election 2015: cannabis is safer than alcohol party
election 2015: andrew neil's campaign morning report
election 2015: what the uk and scottish polls predict
election 2015 smaller parties: mebyon kernow
election 2015: issuing 650 writs to get voting started
lucy powell: labour government would ban exploitative zero hour contracts
peter kellner: there is a "real labour bounce" in latest poll
alan duncan: cameron's third term decision 'not unwise'
how will the general election campaigns pan out?
was it wrong for tories to try and oust commons speaker?
labour's lucy powell clashes with presenter andrew neil
famous faces: mps retiring and leaving political stage
bbc news timeliner hosts election archives
how many archive election broadcasts can you remember?
how does big ben cope with the change to summer time?
burnham: nhs is going backwards on this government's watch
what happened to coalition predictions?
la reine le veult: what is prorogation in parliament?
mackenzie: "white poor thickos" claiming the benefits
would you want to do these jobs?
when should prince charles’ letters be published?
secret ballots for future speaker elections?
hancock and mahmood: tax and national insurance pledges
election 2015: artist adam dant drawing the campaign
pmqs highlights 2010-2015: cameron, miliband and mps
london marathon bid in election run-up by dan jarvis mp
pmqs: cameron on british deaths in a320 alps air crash
pmqs: cameron and miliband on post-election vat rises
pmqs: cameron and miliband on national insurance and taxes
pmqs: cameron on connarty 'standing down' at election
pmqs review: patel and umunna join landale and neil
election: speechwriters collins and finkelsteindaily politics highlights of 2015
election 2015: dup's donaldson on hung parliament talks
what do ukip and green councillors think?
brian may on common decency campaign
chris leslie on labour election vat pledge
why did cameron announce future plans?
ukip plans: nhs, defence, hs2, foreign aid and scotland
farage pub protest: dan glass and patrick o'flynn
stewart hosie on post-election snp labour deal
election archive moments of politicians and public
what will be the fate of afzal amin?
jim murphy mp: scottish labour is re-energised and determined
red box, yellow box: the lib dems' 'alternative budget'
norman lamb: there's a complete imbalance in the nhs
week ahead: what are the polls telling us?
budget 2015: voters' reaction to osborne announcements
political week: shapps, coalitions, and two budget boxes
life in politics: speaker and labour mp betty boothroyd
budget: don foster money to deal with aggressive gulls
any budget affect on the polls yet?
hawkins: oddest morning after a budget that i can remember
budget buzzwords and jargon: debt, deficit, and deeds
alexander heckled on lib dem 'budget' by labour mps
budget debate: gauke, leslie and flanders
budget overview from stephanie flanders
budget 2015 index (to text and clips)
pmqs: watson calls for whistleblower protection
pmqs: cameron and miliband on the nhs and kitchens
what are ukip's policies?
budget debate: taxpayers' alliance and tuc
budget preview: hancock and perkins
ukip and nigel farage clips: damp rag, weather and golf
ukip history: from sked to kilroy silk and farage
election 2015: farage on thanet south and ukip future
nigel farage on nhs and paying for private health care
former mp michael brown on finances after losing seat
dawn primarolo and hugh robertson standing down as mps
election 2015: snp's stewart hosie on labour coalition
caroline flint: we are in touching distance of winning this election
ed davey: i am fighting every day to make sure i'm re-elected
what could be in the chancellor's budget?
week ahead: is it time for the bbc to stand up to jeremy clarkson?
pub landlord al murray campaigns in south thanet
european union army proposal from jean-claude juncker
estonia: government services are paperless and online
european week: waterloo, 2 euro coin and french budget
budget 2015 mood box: george osborne or ed balls choice
labour bid to change energy markets and cut fuel bills
tom brake on lib dem 'right to own' home plan
election 2015: uk political map based on seat and bets
historians david abulafia and mary beard on europe
election 2015: national heath action on nhs policies
political betting debate: harry cole and tom mludzinski
farage race comments reaction: sunder katwala and mark littlewood
budget 2015: cut spirit tax to help whisky industry
pmqs: cameron and miliband on tv election debate plans
pmqs: carswell and cameron on uk immigration figures
pmqs: cameron and miliband on general election campaign
pmqs: sutcliffe asks cameron about retirement plans
pmqs: speaker warns 'smirking' chief whip michael gove
pmqs: cameron and lucas on nhs spending priorities
eurosceptic and europhile sides on eu referendum in uk
united nations job for conservative mp stephen o'brien
politicians taking over the airwaves?
rudd and elliott on european arguments
what do the polls say for the political parties?
johnston press wants new bbc and local media relations
59 days until the general election
should mps engage on twitter?
candidate hands back £1,000 donation from blair
selling off the westminster family silver?
curran: i don’t think we should get into 'back room deals'
what goes on at the green party conference?
is: making inroads into libya
discussion: the battle against islamic state
week ahead: what will become of the tv debates?
english democrat robin tilbrook on 'independent state'
bob stewart on uk defence spending and tory policy
green conference: scott cato on welfare and housing
douglas hurd: bosnia, pm bid and advice to cameron
plaid conference: leanne wood on wales independence bid
political week: cornwall, immigration and tv debates
adonis: opinion in scotland is volatile
droning on about rules for flying drones
what's in a party political name?
flynn: worst ever prime minister's questions?
'britain now gives away an eye-watering £12bn a year'
pmqs: cameron and fox on trident, labour and snp deal
pmqs: cameron and gardiner on missed cancer targets
pmqs: miliband challenges cameron on immigration pledge
cameron and miliband on tv leader election debates
pmqs: cameron and gardiner on missed cancer targets
pmqs review: claire perry, hilary benn and nick watt
delingpole on obesity and paying for health care
union jack & 'funded by uk government' plaque for public projects?
where should mps go when parliament is repaired?
margaret beckett on uk national security
lammy: serial under-reporting of crime in the uk
can political commentators do comedy?
pm to announce prison sentences for those who do not act on child abuse allegations
generation rent: move parliament, mps and peers to hull
mood box: personality or policy choice for voters
mood box reaction: is the prime minister a marshmallow?
where do parties stand on housing figures?
nigel evans on red and yellow cards for errant mps
liam byrne mp: labour's tuition fee cut 'fully costed'
liam fox: maintain nato spending target
farage on immigration: my predictions have proven to be right
the worst 'car crash' political interviews
week ahead: how will the green party do in the elections?
have ukip peaked too soon?
why has the name of the so-called 'jihadi john' been revealed?
political week in 60 seconds
will ukip follow conservative spending plans?
willetts on university funding and fees
labour student fees plan 'very distinctive'
pollster: don't bring us attack-style ads to uk
jenrick: isis looting, destroying and selling art
what could we ask conservatives about migration?
labour and ukip on immigration figures
who could be the next mayor of london?
massow: i'm running ahead, but not nearly enough at the moment
are gay men secretly tories?
second jobs ban would attract 'obsessive crackpots'
pm 'not ruling out' changes on mps' second jobs
bethnal green mp urges inquiry into radicalisation
david cameron wishes ed balls a happy birthday
robinson and mps review pmqs
how important is an arts education?
should mps' seconds jobs be banned?
ed vaizey: government 'passionately in favour' of supporting arts funding
mary creagh: women are 'turned off' by politics
bennett apologises to green members for 'bad' interview
british economy has 'underlying problems'
is the house of lords too old?
electoral polls: what do they really show??
bennett 'sorry' to greens for 'bad' lbc interview
is the house of lords out of date?
daily politics meets gogglebox's michaels family
sir malcolm riftkind: i am livid
harper: conservative government will 'keep' pensioner benefits
starmer, frazer and smart on nhs funding
gogglebox's andrew michael: ukip 'struck a chord with me'
who would want to be an mp?
malcolm rifkind: 'i'm not sorry, i'm absolutely livid'
labour donors 'not dodgy'
ken clarke: row over tax avoidance is "bogus"
week ahead: will ed miliband's confrontation with tax avoiders pay off?
tax avoidance and evasion: toby young v owen jones
the co-operative group: schools, shops and politics
european week: traffic offences, ukraine and greece
hungary's future links to russia and the european union
passenger name record: sharing airline passenger details
were you thinking what he was thinking?
kevin brennan on miliband and fink
party election campaigns getting underway
taking a ride in a driverless car
is the labour bus pink or magenta?
snp's stewart hosie on george osborne and uk austerity
pmqs: cameron and miliband on hsbc and tory donors
pmqs: cameron and miliband on hsbc and tax claims
pmqs: cameron announces free train wi-fi from 2017
pmqs: cameron and blomfield on nhs pay rises
pmqs review with robinson, neil, gibb and eagle
why could the sun be setting on the union jack in fiji
lamb: there will be no hiding place for poor care
what are hedge funds, and does anyone understand them?
mahmood and garnier on hsbc tax claims
who did go to tory black and white ball?
labour policies on paternity leave and childcare
hsbc 'helped clients dodge tax'
jewish reaction to increased security
hazel blears on anti-semitism report
prof curtice on election lottery
stewart: we should not be dragged into a ground war
what does business think about labour's economic policy?
leslie v hancock on business policies
protests stop nigel farage rotherham appearance
full nigel farage interview
clip:  sarah champion on nigel farage rotherham office tweet
full sarah champion interview
why was beyonce played in cabinet?
political week in 60 seconds
north korea claims and de-selections in redcar
chuckle brothers: from me to you and pmqs!
what's the extent of homelessness in britain today?
alexander: no need to increase income tax, national insurance, vat
why don't people register to vote?
robinson: the policies are right, the mood music is wrong
rotherham council child abuse report
alison wolf on feminist help for women in low-paid jobs
pmqs: cameron's swipe at balls' memory lapse
pmqs: cameron and miliband on hedge funds and economy
pmqs: robertson and miliband on scottish devolution
pmqs: rotheram and cameron on election promises
pmqs: cameron announces medal for uk ebola workers
pmqs review: robinson, neil, mordaunt and coaker
ex doncaster mayor martin winter on ed miliband book
houses of parliament shop: books by men and women
x factor style contest to allow commons documentary
mps to vote on 'three person' babies: ridley and mogg debate
how would english votes for english laws affect the uk?
why do parties use negative political adverts?
where parties stand on education policy in england
jones: creating a mood music which vilifies business
magna carta copies brought together for first time in london
magna carta's place in history
'voters are not ready for the general election yet'
what to expect when the election campaign really gets underway
javid: we need to do a better job of getting our message across
why churchill's grandson missed the statesman's funeral
political week in 60 seconds
did you know there's a by-election coming up?
labour mps call for personal approach to health services
will social media get young people interested in politics?
chilcot report: norman baker on iraq war report delay
dry january: nigel farage and iain wright on no alcohol
fracking and shale gas plan hold-ups across the uk
eu 'moving very much along uk lines' says ex sweden pm
nigel farage on greece, italy, euro and eu economics
bakewell on miliband press comments
what parties do not want to talk about in election campaign
election questions for flint and willetts
all women shortlists to select new mps in parliament
pmqs review: landale, flint and willetts on nhs clashes
pmqs: skinner and cameron on food banks and contacts
pmqs: cameron and miliband on nhs in england and wales
pmqs: cameron and miliband on 'weaponise' nhs claim
pmqs: mps calls cameron and miliband clowns and jokers
lords try again on communications data bill powers
voice of the balls offers voiceover tips to paddy ashdown
why manorial rights means your home might not be all yours
mood box: are lib dems going up or down in voters' opinions?
sarah wollaston on conservative housing benefit policy
full debate: 100 days to go to general election
jagger on fracking: are we prepared to risk our way of life?
carswell on bashir defection and nhs claims
nick robinson on online voting
what do the greens stand for?
clip: natalie bennett: 'leader does the election tv debates'
full interview: natalie bennett
'scottish labour party has not been good enough in the recent past'
shapps: seven-party tv debate plans 'look more sensible'
shirley williams: opera to labour, sdp and lib dems
political week in 60 seconds
election 2015: george galloway on respect in tv debates
election 2015: dodds on dup and ni role in tv debates
is there a green 'surge' in the polls?
powers for scotland: redwood, wishart and murphy
carmichael on additional powers for scotland
plain packets on cigarettes: williams and evans debate
misprint sends ukip calls to photographer
mps on fixed term or 'zombie' parliament at westminster
labour mps johnson and abbott on mansion tax proposals
pmqs: tapsell claims blair falsified iraq evidence
pmqs: abbott and miliband on chilcot report delay
pmqs: reckless and cameron on tv election debates
pmqs: jenrick and cameron on blunt and bryant spat
blogger sunny hundal on raif badawi in saudi arabia
labour mps johnson and abbott on mansion tax proposals
trident debate: williams and johnson
chickens leave the coop to go free range on election trail
the falling price of milk
election 2015: dulwich and west norwood seat candidates
greens launch poster in bid to join tv election debates
parties propose changes to mental health services
mood box: have pensioners never had it so good?
grayling on early automatic release for prisoners,
harman on labour plans to ‘cap’ or ‘freeze’ power bills
labour's bid for the younger and lost voters
oil price effect on economy, jobs, prices and inflation
scottish energy minister fergus ewing wants oil tax cut
greek election: syriza win would scare european leaders
european week: paris shootings and ttip protests
eu neighbours: trade and logistics in the netherlands
red meat day: neil parish mp and peta's mimi bekhechi
front national's le pen on charlie hebdo shootings
election 2015: yarmouth's tory, ukip and labour candidates
hancock and portes on osborne's 'surplus fetish'
'people are fed up with everything being a bit too packaged'
english spelling society's chairman on word phonetics
pmqs review with robinson.
neil, reeves and lewis
pmqs: cameron and gale on bbc's tony hall before mps
pmqs: cameron and perkins on ambulance death claims
pmqs: cameron and miliband on election leader debates
how broadcasters have used the 'empty chair'
church of england role on uk political issues
islamic terror attacks: france, nigeria, pakistan, syria and iraq
what is a charter of budget responsibility?
leslie and hancock on the charter of budget responsibility
religion and violence: dawkins, ramdani and fraser
counter terrorism bill debate: field, johnson and hughes
general election: coalition or majority government?
general election 2015: children on voting and mps
general election hash tags, tweets and social media role
harry cole and atul hatwal on tweets in election campaigns
election campaigning debate: mitchell, brinton, carswell and denham
patrick mcloughlin on terror threats to uk transport
general election 2015 options in a hung parliament
does miliband want to 'weaponise' the nhs?
clifford mann on english hospital a&e waiting times
greens and ukip on tv leader election debates
bennett and nuttall on tv leader election debates (full version)
eurozone debate: pryce and hannan
political week in 60 seconds
changing labour view on british military action aboard
regulating hairdressers: nia griffith and nicky clarke
paris shootings: uk terror threat and security issues
rt's going underground broadcast from london
abbott and powell on uk military intervention
reaction to paris attacks: murray, nawaz and powell
pmqs: cameron and robertson on changing voting age
pmqs: cameron and llwyd on chilcot report delays
pmqs: sarwar and cameron on oil price and scottish jobs
pmqs: cameron says miliband wants to weaponise nhs
pmqs: miliband calls for cameron apology on a&e waiting times
uk pm david cameron condemns french magazine attack
gavin barwell and croydon advertiser on mp campaign
mps, journalists and academics in political book awards
lamb and kendall on nhs figures for england
should ched evans be allowed to resume career in football?
dominic grieve on theresa may's terrorism bill
what happened to these 2014 predictions?
key dates in 2015 general election campaign
general election 2015: voters' views on campaign
betting odds cut on second general election in 2015
polls on 2015 general election: ben page with panel of mps
nhs and health policies: jowell, campbell, gillan and nuttall